Create CAP-PostgresQL article (#11)
XAP-Software/blog.xap.group: _posts/2022-05-05-cap-postgresql.md

---
layout: post

> title: How to set up your CAP project with PostgresQL database?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to set up your CAP project with PostgreSQL database?
```

categories: [CAP POSTGRESQL]
author_github: nevermore17
author: Kirill Verbin
---

> In case you need to create CAP project with Postgresql database, then this article will help you understand the initial setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you need to create CAP project with PostgreSQL database, this article will help you understand the initial setup.
```

## cds-pg

> In the normal case, CAP project cannot work with PostgreQL. To connect to the database you need to install `cds-pg` and `cds-dbm`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CAP projects cannot work natively with PostgreSQL. To connect to such database you need to install community-driven `cds-pg` and `cds-dbm`
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

>   npm install cds-pg cds-dbm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npm install cds-pg cds-dbm
```

```

Database connect in `package.json`

```json

"cds": {
        "requires": {
            "db": {
                "kind": "database"
              },
              "database": {
                "dialect": "plain",
                "impl": "cds-pg",
                "model": [
                  "srv"
                ]
              }
        },

```

Data for connecting to the database is written in `default-env.json`

```json

{
    "VCAP_SERVICES": {
      "postgres": [
        {
          "name": "postgres",
          "label": "postgres",
          "tags": ["plain", "database"],
          "credentials": {
            "host": "localhost",
            "port": 5432,
            "database": "database",
            "user": "user",
            "password": "password",
            "schema":"schema"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }

```

> Now we should do is to define our data model and services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we should define our data model and services.
```

## cds-dpm 

Use `cds-dpm` to deploy database artifacts to the PostgreSQL database.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

> npx cds-dpm deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npx cds-dpm deploy
```
